chore(docs): Add Fast Refresh entry (#30133)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/conceptual/fast-refresh.md

---

> title: Fast Refresh

Author: The readers don't need to know the technical details of Fast Refresh, this doc should outline what it does, how it's expected to work and what limitations are there (+ tips).

So "How it works" is important to show the different behaviors that are correct.

"Error resilience" shows our different types of errors so people understand where they are coming from.

The rest is limitations & tips.

---

So I guess putting this under "Reference" is better as I don't really want to write more than this here.

---

> Fast Refresh is a feature that allows you to get direct feedback for changes in your React components. Fast Refresh is enabled by default in Gatsby's development server and should show your changes within a second, without losing component state.

Author: Good point! The problem is that there's no official docs yet, this is one of the only first-party sources: https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/16604#issuecomment-528663101 -- the rest is third-party articles or the docs I linked in the PR.

It's a term coined by Facebook, so yeah, can be seen as a brand name (it's a phrase in React, not specific to Gatsby).

I'll add some info to the introduction, thanks!

## How It Works

> - If you edit a file that only exports React component(s), Fast Refresh will update the code only for that file, and re-render your component. You can edit anything in that file, including styles, rendering logic, event handlers, or effects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you edit a file that only exports React component(s), Fast Refresh will update the code only for that file, and re-render your component. You can edit anything in that file, including styles, rendering logic, event handlers, or effects.
```

> - If you edit a file with exports that aren't React components, Fast Refresh will re-run both that file, and the other files importing it. So if both `Button.js` and `Modal.js` import `theme.js`, editing `theme.js` will update both components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you edit a file with exports that aren't React components, Fast Refresh will re-run both that file, and the other files importing it. So if both `Button.js` and `Modal.js` import `theme.js`, editing `theme.js` will update both components.
```

> - Finally, if you edit a file that's imported by files outside of the React tree, Fast Refresh will fall back to doing a full reload. You might have a file which renders a React component but also exports a value that is imported by a non-React component. For example, maybe your component also exports a constant, and a non-React utility file imports it. In that case, consider migrating the constant to a separate file and importing it into both files. This will re-enable Fast Refresh to work. Other cases can usually be solved in a similar way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Finally, if you edit a file that's imported by files outside of the React tree, Fast Refresh will fall back to doing a full reload. You might have a file which renders a React component but also exports a value that is imported by a non-React component. For example, maybe your component also exports a constant, and a non-React utility file imports it. In that case, consider migrating the constant to a separate file and importing it into both files. This will re-enable Fast Refresh to work. Other cases can usually be solved in a similar way.
```

## Error Resilience

> Fast Refresh comes with a good resilience against errors and the custom overlay in Gatsby will provide you with information on how to resolve those. Whenever possible a code frame showing the exact error location, including the original line is given. The overlay will indicate whether it's a compile error, [GraphQL](/docs/glossary#graphql) error, or runtime error. Once you fixed the error the overlay will automatically disappear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fast Refresh is resilient against errors and the custom overlay in Gatsby will provide you with information on how to resolve those. Whenever possible, a code frame showing the exact error location, including the original line, is given. The overlay will indicate whether it's a compile error, [GraphQL](/docs/glossary#graphql) error, or runtime error. Once you fix the error the overlay will automatically disappear.
```
I'm not sure resilience is the word here. What are you trying to say? That they're compatible and facilitate errors well? Or that fast refresh ignores errors?

Author: I guess what I was trying to say is:

For most (but hopefully all) errors our Fast Refresh integration catches those and shows you the custom overlay instead of silently failing/showing a blank page. Furthermore, after fixing those things it recovers itself from that state and goes away.

Reviewer: Ah ok. So resiliant makes sense but I think it's a bit hard to understand unless you already know what's happening. So perhaps keep the section title but use that longer explanation? "The Fast Refresh integration is good at catching errors instead of silently failing. Gatsby takes this opportunity to present you with a custom overlay that further explains the error and how to resolve it. Once it's resolved Fast refresh will recover from that state."

![Three error overlays from left to right: Compile error, GraphQL errors, and runtime errors](../reference/release-notes/v3.0/compile-graphql-runtime-errors.jpg)

### Compile Errors

> Compile errors originate from webpack and can't be dismissed. Those errors are blocking the compilation of the code itself, so you'll need to fix them in order to see the page. The [Debugging HTML builds](/docs/debugging-html-builds/) guide might also be relevant in some cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compile errors originate from webpack and can't be dismissed. Those errors are blocking the compilation of the code itself, so you'll need to fix them in order to see the page. The [Debugging HTML builds](/docs/debugging-html-builds/) guide may also be helpful in some cases.
```

### GraphQL Errors

GraphQL errors can occur due to a number of reasons, most often due to an error inside your page query or static query. You'll be given an error ID (e.g. `#85923`) that you can use to scan the documentation and internet in addition to an error message.

### Runtime Errors

> If the runtime error didn't occur during rendering the component state will be retained, however when the error happened during rendering, React will remount your application using the updated code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the runtime error didn't occur during rendering, the component state will be retained. However, if the error happened during rendering, React will remount your application using the updated code.
```

If you have [error boundaries](https://reactjs.org/docs/error-boundaries) in your application (which is a good idea for graceful failures in production), they will retry rendering on the next edit after a rendering error. This means having an error boundary can prevent you from always getting reset to the root app state. However, keep in mind that error boundaries shouldn't be too granular. They are used by React in production, and should always be designed intentionally.

## Limitations

> Fast Refresh tries to preserve local React state in the component you're editing, but only if it's safe to do so. Here's a few reasons why you might see local state being reset on every edit to a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fast Refresh tries to preserve local React state in the component you're editing, but only if it's safe to do so. There are a few reasons you might see local state being reset on every edit to a file:
```

> - Local state is not preserved for [class components](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#function-and-class-components). Only function components and hooks preserve state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Local state is not preserved for [class components](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#function-and-class-components). Only function components and hooks preserve state.
```

> - The file you're editing might have other exports in addition to a React component. Gatsby includes an ESLint rule by default to warn against this pattern in pages: Page templates must only export one default export (the page) and `query` as a named export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The file you're editing might have other exports in addition to a React component. Gatsby includes an ESLint rule by default to warn against this pattern in pages: Page templates must only export one default export (the page) and `query` as a named export.
```

> - Anonymous arrow functions like `export default () => <div />` cause Fast Refresh to not preserve local component state. Gatsby includes an ESLint rule by default to warn against this pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Anonymous arrow functions like `export default () => <div />` cause Fast Refresh to not preserve local component state. Gatsby includes an ESLint rule by default to warn against this pattern.
```

> - Sometimes, a file would export the result of calling [higher-order component](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components) like `HOC(WrappedComponent)`. If the returned component is a class or lowercased, state will be reset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sometimes a file will export the result of a [higher-order component](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components), like `HOC(WrappedComponent)`. If the returned component is a class or lowercase, state will be reset.
```

## Error Resilience

> The Fast Refresh integration is good at catching errors instead of silently failing. Gatsby takes this opportunity to present you with a custom overlay that further explains the error and how to resolve it. Once it's resolved Fast refresh will recover from that state. The overlay will indicate whether it's a compile error, [GraphQL](/docs/glossary#graphql) error, or runtime error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Fast Refresh integration is good at catching errors instead of silently failing. Gatsby takes this opportunity to present you with a custom overlay that further explains the error and how to resolve it. Once it's resolved Fast Refresh will recover from that state. The overlay will indicate whether it's a compile error, [GraphQL](/docs/glossary#graphql) error, or runtime error.
```

Reviewer: This was my bad.
